Hey welcome back.
In this video we're going to dive into some of the first commands will open up the power show and start
typing some code.
But first I just want to dive into some of the key differences that you'll encounter if you're using
a PC compared to using a Mac.
So Macs and Linux operating systems basically anything that isn't a PC.
Both happened to be based on something called Unix which means that they share almost all of the same
terminal terminal commands.
So if you have a Mac and another student is using a Linux machine the commands that you use to make
to make a new file or to make a new folder are the same.
Unfortunately that's not true on a PC.
Instead Windows has an entirely different kernel which is think of it as the thing it's based on top
of.
So Mac and Linux are based on Unix.
Windows has its own kernel and in the past it's always had its own command line syntax totally different
commands for M-S DOS.
If you've heard of that and something called command prompt.
Fortunately for us there is an alternative called Power show.
So power show allows PC users to type Unix like commands on a PC.
So you don't have to have a Mac you don't have to have a Linux machine to be able to use.
Not exactly the same but very similar commands to what I'm going to be using in this course and what
all the other students will be using.
Not to mention the fact that it's what most developers use as well.
Unfortunately power show now ships with all modern Windows computers since Windows 7 so didn't used
to.
Which would have made this a little more tricky to install it but nowadays your computer should have
power shell automatically installed bundled for free.
All you have to do is open up if the start power show will show that in just a sec and then we can start
typing the commands.
So this section is for PC users.
They have another section on commands for Mac and Linux users and you'll see that things are very very
similar.
There are just a couple of slight differences so I did decide to break into two different sections but
throughout the course I will be using a Mac but all the commands that I use you'll be able to use on
your computer.
If you are a PC user but I figured it would be better to make a seperate video or separate series for
PC users just so that you can see what it looks like on your type of machine rather than having to watch
the whole course on on a Mac.
So as far as opening up the power show I'm not an expert Windows user I'm just come down here and click
and type.
Power show or power and it pops up and this is it.
This is the power shop.
OK so I can start typing commands right away.
I mean I can type jibberish and I get an error back telling me I don't know what you're talking about
so that tells us there are only particular keywords that we can type in one example.
I'll show you right now is the LS keyword it stands for list and it just shows the contents of the folder
you're currently in.
And you can see the path listed here in the next video.
We'll talk more about paths but you can see it here that I am in a directory called Colt in the user's
directory in C..
C-drive.
So if I type LS It will show me the contents of that.
So there's the desktop documents downloads favorites links music wonderkid pictures and so on.
These are the contents of my User folder of the colt directory on this PC.
So what you see will probably be different.
You might have some of the same stuff like desktops and documents and downloads but you might have added
or removed other directories here.
So this is how we launch power show.
But I'll just contrast that with if you use the command prompts.
Which is kind of the windows flavored thing.
This is imitating Macs or a Linux machine.
This is what you get on a PC.
If I tried to type LS here it tells me it's not recognized as a command.
So that would make for a bad experience if you're following along in the course using the command prompt.
Unless you happen to know it already but I will be using commands like ls on my Mac.
So if you're using power shell you can also use LS When I use it.
OK so on the video here we just opened a power shall we talk about what it is.
It is an alternative to the built in command prompt.
It matches the syntax for the most part.
Not 100 percent but very close to what I'll be using on my Mac so it should make for a better experience
for you to use.
And it's also what most developers on PCs are using these days unless they actually install their own
Unix based virtual machine which is a whole other can of worms to open up.
So for now we're sticking to power show.
This is a python course anyway.
So the focus will be on Python in just a couple of videos.
Will be a python land.
Fortunately.